Hello everybody and welcome back.
So let's go ahead and get our new projects set up a couple of things that I want to show you about the
project manager itself.
So for instance here I've got this test Linux it's just a little project that I created.
First of all when I set everything up to make sure that everything was working on a Linux based system
and it was and I don't need it anymore.
Now unfortunately there's no easy way of deleting on here if I right click.
It doesn't actually give me an option delete but it does give me an option to show in a file manager
if you go ahead and do that we can go upper level to unreal projects and just delete the folder obviously
be careful if you're doing this.
You do want to go ahead and inadvertently delete something you wanted to keep.
If we go back now it will still be there until even the next time we launch it or up in the top right
here we can refresh and we just get our two projects.
OK.
So just quickly hopped over to my P.C. and we see the same issue is present here we can show in Explorer.
However unlike Linux Windows and Mac both have the epic launch.
Let's go have a look at the projects there instead.
Excellent.
So if we have a look at the epic launch and go across to the library where we can launch our engine
down here we have our projects and you can right click any the clone to take a copy or delete.
So there are a few extra options right there for you if you don't fancy deleting it from the file system
itself.
There we go.
Now you may be wondering oh we'll not create a building escape.
Why if we got it there.
Well this particular building escape is the old one.
And let's go ahead and create a new one now.
Let's go to the new project tab.
OK.
So let's go ahead and first of all click the C++ tablet because that is the type of project that we're
doing.
And you can see it comes with a series of defaults.
As normal we can just go for basic code again.
In future you may decide to pick one of these other ones to get a leg up in a head start with setting
up where the camera is how the how the player moves etc. but for the moment we're going to stick with
basic code and create things ourselves.
Then we come down to our couple of options along the bottom.
Here is a well an option for you.
I'm not going to use the starter content however you might want to include it just to play and get familiar
again with the interface.
And so if you're not overly familiar with the unreal Ed interface do make sure you have the width start
to content turned on.
I'm going to turn it off because I'm going to import things and build up later on.
Now we've got where we're going to store things.
Now I've already created a folder in my repos which is just where I keep track of all of my project
changes.
If you use source control I will include a link in the lecture resources about the Gates ignore that
you can use to help manage an unreal project.
Now the name of the project I'm not going to keep it called my project I'm going to call it building
escape okay.
And with everything they're done I'm going to go ahead and create my project.
Now it may take your computer a few moments to do this especially if you have included the starter content
or all other packages or any other content that you wanted to include.
And with V.S. code now open that shows me everything's there.
There is an update to my extension helping me code in C++ I'm going to let that come down I'm going
to get rid of the welcome screen and I need to open up under source notice we're on the building escape
workspace here and then we've got building escape.
And here we have our building escape CBP and our building escape header file these are two that we're
going to be diving into almost straight away.
I'm going to reload my V.S. code.
Excellent.
So everything is now set up and ready to go and let's go into the projects and make sure it's working.
So we've got the building escape a blank project there.
Let's go ahead and open that up.
Okay.
So this is a great time to give you your challenge if you've already followed along.
Brilliant.
They'll just be one thing for you to do at the very end.
So what I'd like you to do is set up your new C++ project and create a new C++ project with or without
the staff content.
As I mentioned before if you're not that comfortable yet within the unreal editor then do include the
starter content so you can move things around and just get the general feel of it before we start designing
our level if using version control.
Do check out the gates ignore that I've included against this lecture really useful as it will mean
that you exclude any of the files that you don't need to use or keep track of things that unreal can
regenerate at any point.
And finally for those who have already got their project set up play about in your level and get comfortable
because we're going to be diving in and starting to create a new level.
So just feeling comfortable controls and moving things about and snapping them together is going to
be brilliant so it pulls a video now and give it a go Okay everybody Welcome back.
Let's go over into unreal it should have now all opened up for me.
Excellent.
So this is what you will see if you don't include the start content.
If you did include the start's content you will see a chair a couple of chairs a table etc..
So we've got a blank world that we can move around in.
And we also have a ground plane here.
We go ahead and press play now into the level and start to be able to move around.
Can we fly.
Yes of course we can but we can't pass through objects that have a collision on them and we'll talk
about adding collisions later on in the section.
So this is perfect we're able to move around a level.
I'm happy that everything's set up.
I haven't got anything to play with.
If you have and you've created a little scene for yourselves to share that get comfortable with doing
it and I'll see you all in the next lecture.